Imagine a scenario, one of
the servers used by your company
runs a service called ticky.
This service is an internal
ticketing system used by
a lot of different teams in
the company to manage their work.
The service logs a bunch
of events to syslog,
both when it runs successfully
and when it encounters errors.
Developers of the
service are asking for
your help with getting some
information out of those logs,
to better understand how
the software is being
used and how to
improve it. No sweat.
As an up and coming
IT Professional,
you enthusiastically
accept this mission.
So for your final
project in this course,
you'll write some
automation scripts that
will process the system log and
generate a bunch of
reports based on
the information extracted
from log files.
The log lines follow
a pattern similar to the
ones we've seen before.
Something like this.
When the service runs correctly,
it logs an info
message to syslog,
stating what it's done,
the username, and the ticket
number related to the event.
If the service
encounters a problem,
it logs in error
message to the syslog,
indicating what was wrong and the
username that
triggered the action
that caused the problem.
The developers of
the service want
two different reports
out of this data.
The first one is a ranking
of errors generated
by the system.
This means a list of all
error messages logged,
and how many times each
of them was found,
not taking into account
the users involved.
They should be sorted by
the most common error
to the least common error.
The second one is a usage
statistics for the service.
This means, a list of all users
that have used the system
including how many
info messages and
how many error messages
they've generated.
This report should be
sorted by username.
To visualize the data
in these reports,
you want to generate a
couple of webpages that'll
be served by a web server
running on the machine.
To do this, you can make
use of a script that's
already in the system
called csv_ to_html.py.
This script converts
the data in a CSV file
into an HTML file containing
a table with the data.
Then, put the files
in the directory
that's used by the webserver
to display the webpages.
The goal is to have one
script that can get
all the necessary work
done automatically,
every day without any
user interaction.
This script doesn't need
to do all the work itself.
It can call on
other scripts to do
individual task and then
put the results together.
In fact, we recommend
splitting the task so
that each piece can be written
and tested separately.
I imagine that your
mind is racing,
your pulse might have
spread up a little bit,
and your palms are sweating
all over the keyboard.
Don't worry. This might
sound like a lot of work.
But once you've understood
the problem and
done some research and planning,
everything will start
to fall into place.
In our next video, we'll
give you some tips on how
to start breaking this
task down. Here we go.